# LCD Stations: Sample Meteoroligcal Data and Write New CSV Outputs

This repository contains the following scripts: "name_csv.py", and "columns_csv.py" as a part of a senior honors thesis ("Examining the Relationship between Local Climate and Forest Cover in the CONUS"). The first script was created to implement a naming convention for csv files downloaded from NOAA's Local Climatologica Data (LCD) (url:https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/cdo-web/datatools/lcd). The naming convention incororates the name of the data (LCD), the name of the station (ex: WorcesterMA), and the temporal range of the data (2005_2014). This script takes the url links for he station csv files and provide a clear name to facilitate later processes. The second scirpt is used after running the first. columns_csv.py is used to sort through the csv files and write the columns containing date, station ID, Monthly Maximum, Mean, and Minimum temperature to a new csv file. While this script facilitates the processes that sampling process of meteorological stations, there is a need to refine the columns_csv output. The ouput contains the correct information, but included additional ouputs surrounding the data. Particularly, the output includes brackets and quotations that should not be included. Additionally, the data in the output is first sorted my mean temperature, but ideally should be sorted by date. This was not impleneted because the output data includes data beyond what is needed. as there are more rows of station ID and date than Monthly temperature in the csv files. There is inconsistency  in the data making this unclear as to where to not included data. While there are minor adjustments that should be made for future use, this script can be adapted to other data. These scripts iterate through several csv files which is more efficient than doing so manually. Often data includes more information than needed, therefore these scripts can sort through and write only the columns needed.
